{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red202\green202\blue202;\red194\green126\blue101;
\red70\green137\blue204;\red85\green129\blue224;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c83137\c83137\c83137;\cssrgb\c80784\c56863\c47059;
\cssrgb\c33725\c61176\c83922;\cssrgb\c40392\c58824\c90196;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18120\viewh10780\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 \
\
This is a call for sound artists, digital musicians and composers to participate in a distributed, pro-hacking and open-source electronic music composition and instrument design experiment under development and direction by Michael Palumbo and Dr. Doug Van Nort of the Distributed Performance and Sensorial Immersion (Dispersion) Lab. This research-creation project will comprise brief phases of programming and hacking of software-based digital musical instruments, composing etudes, and group improvisations. Regular sessions will be held in January and February 2019, culminating in at least one public performance.\'a0\
\
The project will begin with each participant creating and uploading drafts of an initial software instrument to a branch on a git repository (a public, open-access and distributed digital archive). Each upload will also contain notes about the state of their project (i.e. whats working or not working, sentiments, questions etc.), as well as a short score to be performed with, and and a recording of the instrument. At the end of every week, each instrument and its repository will be reassigned to a different participant, granting new authorship over the continued development and direction of another\'92s instrument, score, and recordings. A tool will be provided to facilitate interacting with other working versions of the instrument, score, and recording(s). Artist-hackers will simply be asked to: [\strokec4 1\strokec3 ] listen to some recordings and perform the score; [\strokec4 2\strokec3 ] record their own performance of the previous composer's score; and [\strokec4 3\strokec3 ] redesign and contribute their own version of the score, instrument, and recordings before the end of that cycle.\'a0No limitations will be imposed on the extent to which an artist-hacker can modify each instrument.\
\
The regular improvisation sessions, held in the Dispersion Lab, will help participants ensure that each instrument is in a ready state prior to being sent to a another artist-hacker, but also serve as an opportunity to experiment with how to stage the culminating public performance. The sessions will be 1-2 hours in length, and scheduling and durations will be agreed upon in advance and will start and end on time.\'a0\
\
Scores can be any digital format (text-based, graphic, notated, voiced instructions, etc.)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \strokec5 Here is perhaps the most fun part!:
\f0\b0 \strokec3  \
for the public performance, participants will not know until the moment they go on stage which instrument they will be assigned to perform.\'a0\
 Requirements:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec6 -\strokec3  A laptop, audio interface, and Max/MSP (free trial versions last 30 days). \
\strokec6 -\strokec3  Must possess a working knowledge of Max/MSP.\'a0\
\strokec6 -\strokec3  Some familiarity with a command line interface and git\'a0is also required, although with enough interest a short, focused workshop could be provided to introduce you to these two systems. \
\strokec6 -\strokec3  A github.com account will be required (sign up is free). \
\strokec6 -\strokec3  Must be willing to share all of your work (including rough drafts) as open-source and open-access.\'a0\
\strokec6 -\strokec3  A sense of adventure and desire to explore experimental sound-based performance and instrument design!\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \strokec5 Sign up:
\f0\b0 \strokec3 \
\
Email interest to Michael: \strokec4 info@palumbomichael.com \strokec3 \
\
You\'92ll be contacted promptly with a doodle poll to determine availability for improvisation sessions and the public performance.\
}