{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16860\viewh13560\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Over next couple of weeks. \
\
\
\
Campfire and basecamp\
\
\
\
Create a GitHub repo for basecamp-gource\
\
\
\
\
1. Is there material that I can share so I can be positioned as an LASG doctoral student. Harvest dissemination materials as you go? (Invitation and request)\
\
2. Could you conceive of more collective things that you could participate in and or coordinate and or encourage? not wanting to go it alone or be siloed. (Like what you said to graham about how nice it was to work alongside). \
\
3. Workflow: because of your special insights and bc its related to creativity. Could you please look over their shoulders with what they have already, could you conceive of or contribute based on this. Different then exposing/visualizing the sharing going on between people and teams. \
\
\
Trying to convert to Wordpress. Accompanying that has been a template as a portal in and as a content creator. It hasn\'92t been made public. It is poorly understood internally. \
\
Beyond that is there a way for creating dissemination material, converting harvesting templating. What kind of simple portals. What would work to produce shareable material. They do an enourmous amount of collaborative working. Are there tools for it. \
\
Had an unfortunate experience with a web designer who was working on their CMS (content mgmt server). 2 months ago. Had to move on. \
\
They are still stuck with the LASG site from 3 years ago. Its far too closely associated with PB. That\'92s a problem. How do we make all this happen. \
\
\
THE NEXT 8 WEEKS IS THE TIME THEY WANT TO PUTTING TOGETHER WRITING AND PUBLICATIONS. THIS MUST BE UP BY THE MARCH SYMPOSIUM. Something succinct but executed is more important that having a deep reservoir that is not tangible to partners and outside groups. }