{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 	\'93I also like to encourage people without musical training to engage in improvisation to experience making their own music.\'94( Oliveros - deep listening - xvi)\
\
\'93I composed 
\i Sonic Meditations \'97 a body of work that could be done by persons without musical training. Sonic Mediatations
\i0  are based on patterns of attention. In other words these pieces are ways of listening and responding. 
\i Sonic Meditations 
\i0 is the basis of 
\b Deep Listening. 
\b0 I noticed that many musicians were not listening to what they were performing! \'85 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B7B27A1A-6E22-40C6-BC37-0AB2313FF903"}}{\fldrslt There was disconnection from the environment that included the audience as the music was played.}} Observing these phenomena prompted me to investigate {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9E83D6D5-656B-4C40-A593-8619BCEC3649"}}{\fldrslt human attention processes and strategies.}}\'94 (xvii)\
\
\
\'93My performances as an improvising composer are especially informed by my Deep Listening practice. I do practice what I preach. When I arrive on stage, I am listening and expanding to the whole of the space/time continuum of perceptible sound. I have no preconceived ideas. What I perceive as the continuum of sound and energy takes my attention and informs what I play. What I play is recognized consciously by me slightly (milliseconds) after I have played any sound. This altered state of consciousness in performance is exhilarating and inspiring. The music comes through as if I have nothing to do with it but allow it to emerge through y instrument and voice. It is even more exciting to practice, whether Iam performing or just living out my daily life.\'94 (xix)\
\
The \'91deep\'92 in Deep Listening is suggestive of something that \'93\'85surpasses one\'92s present understanding or has too many unknown parts to grasp easily. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C718D0FC-5EFD-43F0-8B3A-BADF63926177"}}{\fldrslt A \'91deep one\'92 defies stereotypical knowing and may take either a long time, or never to understand or get to know.\'94 (xix) }}\
\
\'93
\i Deep
\i0  coupled with 
\i Listening
\i0  or 
\i Deep Listening
\i0  for me is learning to expand the perception of sounds to include the whole space/time continuum of sound \'97 encountering the vastness and complexities as much as possible. Simultaneously one ought to be able to target a sound or sequence of sounds as a focus within the space/time continuum and to perceive the detail or trajectory of the sound or sequence of sounds. Such focus should always return to, or be within the whole of the space/time continuum (context). Such expansion means that one is connected to the whole of the environment and beyond\'94 (xix)\
\
Key: \
\
}