{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Similarity between cooking and playing hardware modular synths is 
\i ephemerality
\i0 . \
\
If food begins to brown and dry out, I can add water to compensate for some properties (moisture) begin to bring it away from further charring, but it will never be quite the same as it was before. Similarly, with the hardware MS, a change cannot be precisely reversed. \'93The fundamental delusion is the one of the reified self. We think we are going to last forever.\'94 (Debra, In class March 26)\
\
\
On mutual influence in music performance. Reflection #1: the listening mediation I led during my class presentation \
\
\
\
I am trained as a composer, with a particular focus on the use of electronics in sound generation and manipulation. I seek out novel sounds, and hold a curiosity towards the means with which to produce such sounds and a desire to experiment with these processes. For most of my career, this was afforded by developing custom computer software which could manipulate sound in ever interesting ways. This practice required an investment in several disciplines: knowledge of music, listening skills, improvisation, design, and computational literacy. (diSessa 5) However, I found it incredibly difficult to remain present and focused as a listener when playing instruments which I had designed, because I would think of something to change in the instrument, and then set off making those modifications. Hours would pass and the activity and intention was no longer about music making, but instead consumed by design thinking. I became disillusioned toward computer-mediated music performance, simply because I was unwilling to practice setting my mind on the singular task of playing and staying the course whenever my mind became attracted to rethinking the design. I gradually began to design software for other musicians to use, and relegated my own music practice away from the computer to playing guitar: there are no computer screens to draw my attention away from sound and musical creativity, and the guitar will remain a guitar regardless of what modifications I envision because I do not possess confident luthier skills. More recently, however, I began to learn to play a special type of electronic instrument called a hardware modular synthesizer. Its uniqueness as an instrument is that it is an analog computer whose components are left partially disconnected, allowing for the player to reshape the function and behaviour of the machine by creating temporary electrical connections, called 
\i patches,
\i0  between these components. In this regard, the act of playing a modular synthesizer is [similar to] the practice of live coding (Hutchins 147), or the on-stage performance practice of programming code which generates live music. In other words, learning to play an instrument whose affordances and constraints and may be defined and redefined during performance meant that my passion for design thinking could be legitimately incorporated within a real-time musical practice. What I found, was that the impulse to reprogram the system that in the case of computer software-mediated music making would completely remove me from the process of music-making, instead I always find my mind and focus bound by the sound being generated contemporaneously, and bound by an intention to explore this sound through the continual retuning of the system. \
\
On the morning of April 9
\fs18 \super th
\fs26 \nosupersub  I was to present my interpretation and reflection on K\uc0\u333 sh\u333  Uchiyama R\u333 shi\'92s book 
\i How to Cook Your Life
\i0 . Within the first few pages I began to see parallels between the life and tenets of the Tenzo and a composer, and so it was decided that the presentation would be designed to incorporate and heighten awareness of the sounds of the classroom. \
\
\
\
It was decided that for the presentation, a synthesizer patch would be designed as an accompaniement alongside the soundscape of the room. Doing so could foreground what I regarded as my own responsibility of influencing the sonic environment of the room such that it could provide space for breath, thought, and yet also create surprising moments{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://FDF5BCE3-6241-4D83-8F67-67B658854228"}}{\fldrslt  (novelty). }}That morning, I did a one hour yoga practice before sunrise and then arrived on campus an hour before class. In the time before class, I prepared the synth patch for the presentation. I attempted to follow the rules outlined in Tenzo Kyokun\'92s 
\i Introductions for the Zen Cook
\i0 , where I paid careful attention to each object and subject in front of me, and added to this the act of 
\i listening
\i0  to the mechanics of my actions: when selecting a cable, I would rummage through the cable box and so I listened intently to the sound of cable ends knocking into each other [klack]. Some cables had to be separated or untangled [ssssspppp, klack, hrrrhrr]; plugging one end of the cable to an oscillator module\'92s output [shk-shkkkkk-chunk]; the other end into the speaker input [shk-shkkkkk-chunnnk] and while I expected to hear the sound of the oscillator immediately following this sequence of actions [fweeeeee], the 
\i timbre 
\i0 and
\i  frequency
\i0  of the sound was novel [fwoooooo]. And so it goes in modular synthesis, there is a persistent curiosity towards creating new relationships between sounds and then conditioning the ways in which they influence each other, listening for novelty, and then seeking out another part of the circuit to experiment with.  During the course of this improvisation session, a patch was realized which which would play a transient, punctuated sound, which to the author evoked the imagery of a s\uc0\u333 zu \'97 a type of aural scarecrow from Japan which which slowly fills up water, and then tips over due to the weight, striking a rock as it spills its load, and then repeats.  In my estimation, this short sound occurred as frequently as once per five to ten minutes. \
\
The emphasis with which Master D\uc0\u333 gen placed upon the care and attention to finest detail when washing rice was particularly instructive: great care must also be taken when unpacking one\'92s instrument from its case. In the context of an electric instrument, one must carefully retrieve cables and other accessories from their storage. Often, items such as cables are layered upon each other, and so it is important when reaching for one or more cables that one is aware of how many cables they are clutching, and that the whole of the cable may be freely drawn from the case without snagging or pulling on other items in its vicinity. A well maintained collection of cables should include cable ties \'97 20-30cm lengths of string or velcro straps \'97 for each cable, used to secure its state as a loop, preventing multiple cables from becoming tangled which has as its consequences lost time due to untangling, and potential damage to the integrity of the cable\'92s construction. Cable ties should already be secured to a fixed point somewhere along the cable, usually close to one of the ends, such that they are not lost between the stages of unpacking and packing. \
 Equally important is the act of tidying one\'92s music equipment following the conclusion of a session or performance. A proper method of cable wrapping takes effort, concentration, and tactile sensing, and is necessary to ensure both longevity of use and effectiveness. One holds an end of a cable in one hand, and with their thumb, fore and middle fingers on the other hand, gently pinches the cable about an arm\'92s length away from the same end, and pulls that point of the cable towards the first hand, gently twisting the cable in what feels like the direction it wants to turn, resulting in a single loop. Continue with this gesture but be aware of the direction that the cable wants to twist: twisting it in one direction will come at a greater ease than the other. The cable should not be made to wrap around one\'92s elbow and shoulder, as this stretches the interior wires and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AAD4284D-E954-406D-879C-6456BA4D2327"}}{\fldrslt wears out}} the protective exterior coating. When the cable has been fully coiled, use a short length of rope or a cable tie to secure the loop in place such that it does not unravel in storage or during travel. One can verify that care was taken to properly coil a cable by holding one of the ends in one hand, and tossing the entire loop forward in front of oneself. A correctly coiled cable will spill out in an even trajectory, whereas an uneven one will get caught on itself, or twist in ways unpleasing to the eye. The sound of a correctly coiled cable unfolding in this way is satisfying 
\i splat
\i0 . A correctly coiled cable will also be amenable to its desired placement in a space, while a cable that was coiled hastily and without regard for its natural twist will be much harder to lay down flat, is much more likely to be a tripping hazard. \
\
from the end the cable bet and failure to adhere to this and as important is the clean up following a session: it is certainly possible to damage a cable by wrapping it too tightly, and with a hardware modular there are so many cables one could easily forget to pack one before leaving, akin to leaving behind one of the strings of a violin following the end of a performance. 	\
\
For the morning meditation portion of my class presentation, I chose to do a listening meditation \
Reflection #2 Playing music with others\
\
\
Reflection #3 A multi-player instrument (bass into synth setup between yourself on modular and Jared on bass). The key elements here are that there is mutual influence: the bass controls aspects of the synth signal, the synth controls aspects of the bass signal, and both of us are listening to each other and being influenced by the other.  \'93\'85the means whereby we turn things even while simultaneously we are being turned by them.\'94 (Dogen 7) \'93When practicing the Way, from the very beginning, listen to the teacher and conduct your self in accordance with his teaching. You should remember and know thoroughly that dharma turns the Self [all phenomena influence us] and that the self turns dharma [ we influence all dharma or phenomena]. When we influence dharma, dharma is weak and we are strong. When dharma influences us, dharma is strong and we are weak. Both of these principles have always been a part of the Teachings of the 
\i buddhadarma
\i0 .\'94 (Yojinshu in Dogen 101)\
\
[[insert a reflection on the idea of two people beholding the same cup, on two musicians are listening to the same sound. In the case of the multi-player instrument, both musicians share some responsibility for the sound, but for several reasons they will hear it differently (invoke Oliveros\'92 distinction between listening vs hearing) This is  : \'93When we look at a cup that is set down between two of us, we have the feeling that we are looking at the same cup, though actually, that is not so. You look at the cup with your vision, and from a certain angle. Moreover, you see it in the rays of light and shadows that come from your side of the room. This applies equally to me as well. In a very rough sense, we proceed to separate the reality of the situation by entertaining the idea that we both see the same cup. This is what I mean by the fabrication of ideas.\'94 (Dogen 27)\
\
\
\'93A dish is not necessarily superior because you have prepared it with choice ingredients, nor is a soup inferior because you have made it with ordinary greens. When handling and selecting greens, do so wholeheartedly, with a pure mind, and without trying to evaluate their quality, in the same way in which you would prepare a splendid feast.\'94 (Dogen 13) As with any hobby within a capitalist society, a challenging aspect of being involved in technologically mediated music is that one is regularly presented with pressure to acquire more equipment, and especially presented with the notion that some equipment is better than others. In discussing the experience of taste, Master Dogen eschews the \'93\'85[distinction of] delicacies or plain food, [that] there is just one taste, and it is the buddhadarma, the world itself as it is. \'85 delicious and ordinary tastes are the same and not two.\'94 (Dogen 13) [[might also be able to relate the \'91hungry ghost\'92 here page 24. The hungry ghost always wants something, can\'92t get enough) \
\
\
}