{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18680\viewh12220\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Degree of immediacy and non-conscious though as being improvisational. Post-hoc analysis as understanding of an event as a text. \
	\
One of the big things sawyer is dealing with. Are there signifiers within a performance (different types of recollections within it i.e. audio, video), and different kinds of reference within this (gesture)\
\
	\'97 expected decor, time of day (ritualized aspect of the improvisation)\
	\'97 \
\
The way you know something has just happened, the markers of emergence \
\
\
Markers of emergence\
\
The thought experiment of using this lens to thinking about your project.\
\
When thinking about something being socially constructed\
\
\
In taking the stance that he\'92s taking the perforative act as the totality of musical experience taken as THE MUSIC. The musical score is taken as the documentation of the improvisation. Fundamentally music as a social construct. \
\
\
\ul Performative act of working in the git\
\
the various software tools being developed in the lab: different types of traces that can have their own morphology, relating it to the performative event would make sense\
\
The typology of instrument agent: if they have different understandings: instrument, or score, or timing mechanism, \
\
Assuming you want to study this from a performative lens:\
	- is the git repository the stage, and this is the medium (telematics)\
		- this is different than watching an ecosystem evolve, and then studying that. \
			if the above two are there, then that could be very interesting. \
\
\
	performatively engaging with something as a performance gesture\
	\
	vs creating something and seeing how it changes as people engage with it over time. Taking the concept of instrument where it is \'91fixed as an instrument\'92 (how people relate to something 
\i referred
\i0  to as an instrument), taking the concept of agent (the extent to which people adhere to an understanding of a given instrument, how it is conceptualized.) . If the software instrument is grounded in a ritual, or you\'92re invoking the term music, gives the potential to reference language (spectral phenomena, centroid, note, timbre, perception) the way things do or do not hold this point to specific variance. \
	\
Observing how the idententy/morphology of a repo is maintained/changed \
\
	- is it an artifact in the way that sawyer talks about the score being a text\
		- do the representations of the artifacts (instruments), does it matter that the software artifacts/code are instruments or artifacts of performance?\
	- or git as multidimensional score\
\
\
\
\ulnone Taking the structural and semiotic: \
\
\
Husserl is about lived time, whereas you\'92re concerned with the scale of enacting a text and how it changes over longer periods of time. The time scales I\'92m thinking about (in the context of ontogenesis, is much longer) \
\
\
Bruce\
\
\
\
Doug mentioned that some improvisors are entirely restrictive of who they play with, and when and where, vs Pauline\'92s approach which is to be open  \ul \
}