{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \'93Deep Listening is a practice that is intended to heighten and expand consciousness of sound in as many dimensions of awareness and attentional dynamics as humanly possible. \'85 [DL] comes from noticing my listening or listening to my listening and discerning the effects on my {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://4F20FD99-AD70-4970-80A9-83AC84525D62"}}{\fldrslt bodymind}} continuum, from listening to others, to art and to life.\'94 (Xxiv)\
\
\'93Deep Listening is a practice and term that does not come from any religious context, even though religious practitioners sometimes use the words. Which That Hanh is a Zen Buddhist Monk whose usage of the term {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7F88472F-0EEB-4847-A1F1-75AA80087F8C"}}{\fldrslt \'93deep listening\'94}} has a specific context as one of the \'93Five Mindfulness Trainings\'94 that he proposes. This is a compassion-centered listening to restore communication in order to relieve suffering and bring happiness to all beings. Listening (as a practice in this sense) would be training to respond with calmness and clarity of mind. It is a determination and commitment to reconcile and resolve conflicts.\'94 (Xxiv)\
\
\'93Meditation in all the meanings of the word is found and defined in diverse religions and spiritual practices. Meditation is used in all its rich variety of meanings to calm the mind and to promote receptivity or concentration. In religious settings, attention is directed to moral and ethical issues, values, beliefs and tenets of the particular faith and to connection with the divine or a divine being, or beings. \'93\
KEY\
}