{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 **dont get hung up on this section. But also, as it is right now its way too wordy with not enough substance. Need to find some sources for definition of EA and the problen(s) of using a computer for music performance. It is expedient to frame this paper within the context of the author\'92s own disciplinary lens, that of electroacoustic music, which means a composer entertains a particular focus on the generation and manipulation of sounds, often through electronic means. An electroacoustic composer seeks out novel sounds, and holds a curiosity towards the means with which to produce such sounds and a desire to experiment with these processes. Often is the case that this is afforded by developing custom computer software which could manipulate sound in ever interesting ways. This practice requires an investment in several disciplines at once: knowledge of music, listening skills, improvisation, design, and computational literacy. (diSessa 5) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://78626D9C-7409-40DC-B54C-923FF4F0AC6A"}}{\fldrslt Framing the scope of the research within this lens, it is hoped, will illustrate a tension between wanting to use a computer for musical creativity and yet so often finding it difficult to stay engaged without changing one\'92s efforts to other computer-based activities which are music-related, yet adjacent to the intended activity from the outset.}} Specifically, this refers to the act of programming which can take over the creative act of music making, and that the propensity of computer usage in music making towards constant task switching is detrimental towards mindfulness. \
}