{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Wittgenstein: pain language is woven into the natural \
\
The buddha never talked about or did anything that he didn\'92t have personal experience with. \
\
In learning pain language we react differently to others. \
\
enlightenment from the beginning referred to other types of life. \
\
Empathic experience is what he first had. \
\
\
Interesting point about empathy: if you see an animal hit by a car, despite not knowing what its like to be of that species, you can still feel empathy for them. \
\
\
World Picture: we develop an understanding and image of things over the course of our lives:\
	- a lot of things go into that world picture that we don\'92t specifically recognize. \
	- how do we do know the earth exists: but Wittgenstein and buddhists don\'92t take this as an open question. \
	- Nagarjuna: post-enlightenment culture that its all matter; that people who have religions or spirituality are marginalized. \
\
Wittgenstein: \'93a philosopher is someone who doesn\'92t know their way around\'94\
\
Interconnectedness \'97 \
\
Compassion and \
\
\'93Wisdom means that you are complicit in co-creation of the situation\'94 (Richard). \
\
\
Mindfulness versus taking action. Koruna: means compassion, so \
\
\
Culture are we defining it as a singularity? As we position ourselves as interconnected, \
\
\
}