{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Jesper Aagaard: \'93Drawn to distraction: a qualitative study of off-task use of educational technology\'94\
\
\'93Today\'92s educational system increasingly integrates digital devices such as laptops and tables in the classroom on the assumption that the use of these technologies will increase student motivation and learning.\'94 (90)\
\
\'93\'85research shows that students often use technologies for distractive purposes like off-task activity and multitasking.\'94 (90)\
\
\'93\'85off-task activity is not always a \ul conscious\ulnone  choice.\'94 (90) << key to mindfulness. \
\
\'93Because of deeply sedimented bodily habits, students often experience habitual distraction in the form of pre reflective attraction towards certain frequently visited websites (e.g. Facebook).\'94 (90) << for my use it could at times be Facebook/other sites/email\'85 but in the case of playing a max patch, the act of patching comes with other off-task potentials: stack-overflow/c74 forums (reference/social media), breaking the instrument, (think hard about others). \
\
\
\'93Students sometimes go as far as closing the lids of their laptops to avoid this habitual distraction.\'94 (90) << have certainly considered this \'97 as long as an instrument is sufficiently abstracted (?) such that its controls/state are not on a screen and manipulatable using midi controls, mouse, etc, this is possible. But for some instruments this is not always possible or quite frankly necessary (or perhaps too restrictive).\
\
\'93This empirical inquiry is informed by postphenomenology, which differs from classic cognitive theory by shifting focus from mental processes to bodily use of technologies.\'94(90) << the mindfulness course emphasizes Wittgenstein\
\
\'93Brief review of existing cognitive literature on attention and its inadequate consideration of embodiment and instead present a post phenomenological framework.\'94 (90)\
\
\
\'93According to cognitive psychology, attention is mostly voluntarily controlled by the mind  (this is endogenous, top-down, or goal-directed attention) but can also be redirected by unexpected external stimuli such as a loud noise or a flashing light (this is exogenous, bottom-up, or stimulus-driven attention) (Corbetta & Shulman, 2002; Posner 1980) Attention is either directed from within or triggered from without. This division is readily adopted by educational researchers, who conclude that technological distraction is primarily voluntary and endogenous, but can also be caused by exogenous stimuli.\'94 (91)\
\
Some key texts on post phenomenology: Ihde 1993, Rosenberger 2012, and Verbeek 2011\
\
The \'91post\'92 in postphenomenology: \'91multi stability and embodiment\'92, where \'93multi stability ontologically replaces the essentialism of Husserlian phenomenology and alludes to an artifact\'92s various partially determined trajectories in different contexts (Hide, 2009). A technological artifact, as Don Hide puts it, becomes what it \'91is\'92 through its uses (Hide, 2990:70). A lighter, for instance, is usually applied to light a candle, but can also be used to open a bottle. There is no \'91essential\'92 use of a lighter. [computers] are even designed to incorporate this kind of multistability (Ihde, 2012) << a hardware modular synth is a fine example of multi stability: each module itself is multistable, in that their use depends on their context: i.e. a delay can also be used as a filter. \
\
\'93Just as multistability replaces the essences of classical phenomenology, embodiment replaces a transcendental notion of subjectivity and its \'91disembodied view-from-nowhere\'92 (Ihde, 2008:3). Post-phenomenology is not concerned with immaterial consciousness, but with situated, embodied relations to material technologies. Using a lighter to open a bottle requires different handling than when used to light a candle.\'94 (91)\
\
\'93Performing different actions with technological artifacts requires different relational strategies, i.e. bodily habits, intentions, and conceptions (Rosenberger, 2009). A relational strategy is what fixes the multi stability of a given artifact to a specific stability. \'85 Rosenberger uses the concept to explain the use of computers where a novice is forced to concentrate\
\
A description of embodied first-person experience, however, rejects this dogma and shows the body to be active and skillful (Merleau-Ponty, 2002). \'85engaging with a [computer] is a highly embodied relation that includes being face-to-face with a screen and hands-on with a keyboard (Friesen, 2011) [and mouse]. An inadequate consideration of embodiment hinders an understanding of the manual nature of media use (Moores, 2014).\'94 (91)\
\
\
\'93Students often described the temptation to engage in off-task activity as a pre-reflective attraction towards frequently visited, educationally unrelated websites. \'93 (93)\
\
Pre-reflective consciousness is the experience which precedes the first-person realization of the experience. \
\
When e{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C5678B27-B41C-43E5-8A0E-B295627AC481"}}{\fldrslt ngaging}} in musical improvisation with a digital musical instrument on a laptop, given either their potential multistabilities, one is subjected to multiple sources of distraction. In the case of a digital musical instrument, improvisation leads one to experiment with the affordances and constraints of the system, yet rather than keeping this exploration contained within manual 
\i operation
\i0  of the instrument, often one\'92s attention gives way to a pre-reflective (Sartre? Aagaard 91, 93) instinct to stop playing and modify its structure in realtime \'97make edits to its code \'97 which is a music-adjacent activity. In the case of the laptop with its \'93\'85sources of [cognitive] overload and distraction \'85 [such as] the orientation and visual nature of laptops, along with pop-ups, instant messages, movement and lighting of text, and even things like low-battery warnings, make laptops inherently distracting. (Bhave 2002; Melerdiercks 2005; Wickets & Hollands 2002)\'94 (Fried 908) ( I lest one not consciously seek and employ different relational strategies (Aagaard 91). \'93 with the pitfall [reword] of \'91pre reflective attraction towards\'92 making edits to the structure of the instrument, and that as this comes in place of learning how to execute the desired sound/musical idea with the instrument in its current structure, it is common that one will find oneself in deep in the track of editing (which also involves extending ones mind into user forums for help,  \'91edit mode\'92 before \
> a Modular synthesizer, although made of discrete units which are themselves multistable, is not multistable in the same way as a laptop. A modular synthesizer is not engineered nor sold with the promise of being able to do anything other than produce or manipulate sound \'97 it cannot be used to send an email nor check the weather. While the individual modules can be rearranged in space and patched together in different ways, their own circuits are fixed, and so the interface \'97 knobs, switches, and patch points \'97 is the lowest level of abstraction of the overall system available to the performer. This is in contrast with code-based digital musical instruments, where not only can the interface be modified, but also the components and systems that the interface 
\i represents
\i0  can be deconstructed, edited, broken, rearranged and added to. In other words, the degree to which the instrument\'92s own structure is fixed during use binds the performer to remaining engaged with its intended usage: listening to and playing with other fellow performers. While the act of editing the code of an instrument can be done in a mindful way, it would be done at the expense of listening to other performers in an ensemble and responding in real time. \
\
, so there is a higher order of abstraction compared with code-based synthesis, \
\
\
Postphenomenology for the \'93crucial relation between bodies and technology\'94 (91) see also Ihde, 2002, 2010. \
Peter-Paul Verbeek on Postphenomenology:\
\'93\'85study technology in terms of the relations between human beings and technological artifacts \'85 various ways technologies help to shape relations between human beings and the world. They do not approach technologies as merely functional and instrumental objects, but as mediators of human experiences and practices.\'94 ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://ppverbeek.wordpress.com/postphenomenology/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 https://ppverbeek.wordpress.com/postphenomenology/}}
\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 )\
\
\
\
\
}