{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Oliveros:\
\
\'93\'85evoked potentials in the brain appear up to a half-second before the individual is aware of a stimulus. The brain then remembers the stimulus as happening in the present moment or the immediate instant in one\'92s sense of time. So \ul perception in time is an illusion. Consciousness is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3CC20D3D-DA07-4174-B16B-B3B126B49ECC"}}{\fldrslt awareness of stimuli and reactions in the moment.}} Consciousness is acting with awareness, presence and memory\ulnone . {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://EAA6ACDE-864D-4471-B610-C82E11CBF084"}}{\fldrslt What is learned is retained and retrievable. Information, knowledge of events, feelings and experiences can be brought forward from the past to the present. In this way one has self-recognition.\'94 (xxi)}}\
\
\'93Many waveforms after first experience are discarded unnoticed without conscious interpretation. Understanding and interpreting what the ear transmits to the brain is a process developing from instantaneous survival reactions to ideas that drive consciousness. The l{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://13DD17E1-7F3A-42F9-B861-ACCEFC47F27E"}}{\fldrslt istening process continues throughout one\'92s lifetime.\'94}}}