{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Abstract/Introduction\
\
This paper is about the value of mindfulness practice in technologically-mediated music making, design, and performance. The multifunctional laptop computer, while alluring, conditions its users towards a propensity for distraction by encouraging off-task activity and multitasking, potentially hindering a focused creative process. This is examined in contrast with a 
\i modular synthesizer
\i0 , an electronic device with a more singular purpose as a musical instrument. Drawing on the course text 
\i How to Cook Your Life,
\i0  the virtue of mindfully attending to one\'92s activity is considered, be it musical as in the case of free-form improvisation, or music-adjacent such as packing up equipment following a performance. The paper concludes on the role of mindful listening in the context of free-form music improvisation. \
\
To begin, this paper is situated within the context of the author\'92s own discipline, that of experimental and electroacoustic music. An electroacoustic composer seeks out novel sounds, and holds a curiosity toward the means of the production of novel sounds, and a desire to experiment with these means and procedures. Often is the case that such procedures are afforded through the development of custom computer software which can manipulate sound to produce ever-interesting sonic results. This practice requires an investment in several disciplines, including knowledge of music, listening skills, improvisation, design, and computational literacy. (diSessa 5) \
\
However, creating music while using a laptop computer can have its deficits, particularly when it comes to sustaining one\'92s attention on a singular task, which stands in opposition to a predominant feature of modern computers: multitasking. According to Jesper Aagaard, \'93multitasking does not in fact denote a quantitative enumeration of tasks, but a qualitative distinction between on- and off-task activity. In other words, multitasking is functionally equivalent to distraction.\'94 (
\i Multitasking as Distraction: A Conceptual Analysis of Media Multitasking Research 
\i0 1) The propensity of computer usage in music-making towards multitasking runs counter to a mindful approach to creativity. While learning how to program affords the opportunity to create instruments capable of realizing novel compositional ideas, the increased engagement with a computer often means that it is increasingly difficult to remain present and focused as a listener. This challenge is intensified when the electroacoustic musician plays instruments which they had designed: during an improvisation \'97 or even practising at home \'97 when encountering a new limitation in what the instrument is capable of, they so often became distracted by immediately excitedly thinking about the addition of new modifications, something to change in the instrument, that they would abandon their playing to set off making those modifications. Hours would pass and the activity and intention was no longer about music making, but instead consumed by design thinking. As the degree to which one is focused does not change, the satisfaction experienced from the activity feels similar. \
At first, programming \'97 a creative act unto itself \'97 feels like playing music, but without listening involved. Without intentionally setting one\'92s mind on to the singular focus of playing an instrument, and acknowledging and declining urges to switch to an off-task such as programming, one can become disillusioned toward computer-mediated music performance because it seemingly begins to encompass more than playing the instrument. This tendency toward distracted use of technology is consistent with contemporary educational research on attention in computationally-mediated classrooms, in which students have been documented succumbing to the \'93\'85temptation to engage in off-task activity [and that this is] a pre-reflective attraction towards frequently visited, educationally unrelated websites.\'94 (
\i Drawn to Distraction: A Qualitative Study of Off-Task use of Educational Technology 
\i0 93)\
\
Post-phenomenology is useful in the context of human-computer interaction, and its notions of 
\i multistability 
\i0 and 
\i embodiment
\i0  (
\i Drawn to Distraction
\i0  91) are salient to a discussion of mindfulness and creativity in the context of technologically mediated art. Post-phenomenology dispatches with the notion of a technology\'92s essence, and through the notion of multistability describes a particular technology\'92s identity as contingent upon how it is used, (\'93Bodies in Technology\'94 70) and in the case of a laptop computer, multistability has regularly become a targeted design pattern. (
\i Can Continental Philosophy Deal with the New Technologies? 
\i0 326) In other words, a laptop possesses such stabilities as a writing tool, musical instrument, and movie player, etc. \
\
When engaging in musical improvisation with a custom digital musical instrument on a laptop, given either their potential multistabilities, one is subjected to multiple sources of distraction. In the case of a digital musical instrument, improvisation leads one to experiment with the affordances and constraints of the system, yet rather than keeping this exploration contained within manual operation of the instrument, often one\'92s attention gives way to an instinct to stop playing and modify its structure in realtime \'97 make edits to its code \'97 which is a music-adjacent activity. In the case of the laptop with its \'93\'85sources of [cognitive] overload and distraction \'85 [such as] the orientation and visual nature of laptops, along with pop-ups, instant messages, movement and lighting of text, and even things like low-battery warnings, make laptops inherently distracting. (Bhave 2002; Melerdiercks 2005; Wickets & Hollands 2002)\'94 (Fried 908)\
\
Post-phenomenology is also informed by \'93\'85embodied relations to material technologies.\'94 (
\i Drawn to Distraction 
\i0 91) Given a particular technology\'92s multistability, one performs different actions in order to successfully use the technology in different ways: an acoustic guitar can be used as a melodic instrument, but also as a hand drum. Rosenberger terms these actions 
\i relational strategies
\i0 , contingent upon a human performer\'92s manual handling of the technology they are what constrain a technology to a particular stability. (Rosenberger 176) \
\
When compared to a computer, an acoustic instrument may have multiple stabilities, but there are no computer screens nor alerts to draw one\'92s attention away from sound and musical creativity. A guitar will remain a guitar regardless of what modifications are envisioned. An instrument which has an open amount of stabilities and encourages re-configuration of its system, yet constrains its purpose towards music making is a special type of electronic instrument called a hardware modular synthesizer. Its uniqueness as an instrument is that it is an analog computer whose components are left partially disconnected, allowing for the player to partially reshape the function and behaviour of the machine by creating temporary electrical connections, called 
\i patches,
\i0  between these components. In this regard, the act of playing a modular synthesizer is similar to the practice of live coding (Hutchins 147) which is the on-stage performance practice of programming code which generates live music. In other words, learning to play an instrument whose musical affordances and constraints may be defined and redefined during performance meant that a passion for design thinking can be legitimately incorporated within a real-time musical practice. In the case of laptop-based music making, the impulse to reprogram a system would require a shift in focus, attention, and intention such that the result would not only be less musical, but due to the split in attention the ears would not be discerning of such output, and the player would also be subject to further potential distraction in the form of notifications, whereas with the modular synthesizer the mind and focus is bound by the sound being generated contemporaneously, and bound by an intention to explore this sound through the continual retuning of the system. \
\
Performing with a hardware modular synthesizer is a highly embodied, first-person experience. The act of controlling such a device \'97 its relational strategy \'97 is contingent on gestures specific to the tactile affordances of physical knobs, switches, and patching. This is contrasted in the case of laptop-based digital musical instruments by the fact that the control data generated from the more multistable mouse and keyboard are mapped onto the musical parameters. In either case, the understanding of the state of the instrument is informed partially by the visible interface, and partially in the imagination.\
\
On the morning of April 9\super th\nosupersub  the author presented on K\uc0\u333 sh\u333  Uchiyama R\u333 shi\'92s book 
\i How to Cook Your Life: from the Zen Kitchen to Enlightenment
\i0  (Dogen, Wright, Uchiyama 2005)
\i , 
\i0 one of the assigned readings for the course 
\i Introduction to Mindfulness: Understanding and Using Mindfulness in the Professions
\i0 . Throughout the reading of the book, it was apparent that the discussion around the path of the Tenzo Kyokun and \'93\'85his pursuit of the Way\'94 (Dogen 3), could serve as allegorical to the experience of a life dedicated to exploring sound, such as the author of this paper \'97 a composer and musician \'97 has, and so it was decided that the presentation would be designed to incorporate and heighten awareness of the sounds of the classroom, including for example, the persistent din of the HVAC system. The composer\'92s primary instrument \'97 a synthesizer \'97 was also prepared for the class as an accompaniment alongside the soundscape of the room. Doing so was intended to foreground the considerable responsibility of having some influence over the sonic environment of the room such that it could provide space for breath, thought, and yet also modulate class members\'92 mindfulness by periodically introducing moments of novelty. (Langer and Moldoveanu 1) \
\
The author conducted a one hour yoga practice before sunrise and then arrived on campus an hour before class. In the time before class, the synthesizer patch was constructed for the class, iteratively prepared from a blank state (no patch connections). How this was conducted was designed to be aligned with a mindful approach as per the preparing of rice, as was insisted upon by Tenzo Kyokun in 
\i Instructions for the Zen Cook
\i0 :\
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li360\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 When washing the rice, remove any sand you find. In doing so, do not lose even one grain of rice. When you look at the rice see the sand at the same time; when you look at the sand, see also the rice. Examine both carefully. Then, a meal containing the six flavours and the three qualities will come together naturally. \'85 In order to not lose any of the rice when picking out the sand, do it carefully with your own hands. Again, in the Chanyuan Qinggui we find \'91Pay full attention to your work in preparing the meal; attend to every aspect yourself so that it will naturally turn out well.\'92\'94 (D\uc0\u333 gen 5)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Gentle deliberation was paid to the handling and interaction with each module, cable, and accessory belonging to the modular synthesizer. The emphasis with which Tenzo Kyokun placed upon the care and attention to finest detail when washing rice was particularly instructive: a modular synthesizer, though its chassis is made of metals and fastened with screws, is nevertheless a rather delicate electrical apparatus susceptible to damage from falls, and moisture. Great care must also be taken when unpacking this instrument from its case. As it is an electronic instrument, the question of how to safely store cables and other accessories is paramount, as is their subsequent retrieval at a later time. Often, items such as cables are layered upon each other, and so it is important when reaching for one or more cables that one is aware of how many cables they are clutching, and that the whole of the cable may be freely drawn from the case without snagging or pulling on other items in its vicinity. Cables are colour-coded according to their length. A well maintained collection of cables will also include cable ties \'97 20-30cm lengths of string or velcro straps \'97 for each cable. These are used to secure a cable in its coiled form, and will also prevent it from becoming tangled with other cables. Failure to adhere to the use of cable ties has as its consequences lost time due to untangling, and potential damage to the integrity of the cable\'92s construction. Cable ties should already be secured to a fixed point somewhere along the cable, usually close to one of the ends, such that they do not become displaced when their cable is uncoiled, nor lost between the stages of unpacking and packing. \
 Equally important is the act of tidying one\'92s music equipment following the conclusion of a session or performance. A proper method of cable wrapping takes effort, concentration, and tactile sensing, and is necessary to ensure both longevity of use and effectiveness. One holds an end of a cable in one hand, and with their thumb, fore and middle fingers on the other hand, gently pinches the cable about an arm\'92s length away from the same end, and pulls that point of the cable towards the first hand, gently twisting the cable in what feels like the direction it wants to turn, resulting in a single loop. Continue with this gesture but be aware of the direction that the cable wants to twist: twisting it in one direction will come at a greater ease than the other. The cable should not be made to wrap around one\'92s elbow and shoulder, as this stretches the interior wires and compromises the protective exterior coating. One can verify that care was taken to properly coil a cable by holding one of the ends in one hand, and tossing the entire loop forward in front of oneself. When thrown in this manner, a correctly coiled cable will spill out in an even trajectory, whereas an uneven one will get caught on itself, or twist and land in ways unpleasing to the eye. The sound of a correctly coiled cable unfolding along a surface in the correct way is a satisfying sounding 
\i klaaattt
\i0 . When put to use again later on, a correctly coiled cable will also be amenable to its desired placement in a space, whereas a cable that was coiled hastily and without regard for its natural twist will be much harder to lay down flat, and therefore will require more effort to ensure that it is not a tripping hazard. When the cable has been fully coiled, locate its tie and secure its loop with a single, tight the bow such that it does not untie in storage or during travel.\
\
A challenging aspect of being involved in technologically mediated music is that one is regularly presented with pressure to acquire more equipment, and especially presented with the notion that some equipment is better than others. That the acquiring of ever more expensive \'91pro\'92 audio equipment will lead to better more professional sounding music. This aspect of Western culture always risks relegating technologically mediated musicians as 
\i hungry ghosts
\i0 . (Dogen 24) In discussing the experience of taste, Master Dogen eschews the \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li360\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'85[distinction of] delicacies or plain food, [that] there is just one taste, and it is the buddhadarma, the world itself as it is. \'85 delicious and ordinary tastes are the same and not two. \'85A dish is not necessarily superior because you have prepared it with choice ingredients, nor is a soup inferior because you have made it with ordinary greens. When handling and selecting greens, do so wholeheartedly, with a pure mind, and without trying to evaluate their quality, in the same way in which you would prepare a splendid feast. (Dogen 13) \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
During the hour-long preparation of the synthesizer prior to the presentation on April 9th, the act of listening to the mechanics of one\'92s actions was explored and documented. When selecting a cable, the author would rummage through the box of available cables and listened intently to the sound of cable ends knocking into each other [klack]. Some cables had to be separated or untangled [ssssspppp, klack, hrrrhrr]; plugging one end of the cable to an oscillator module\'92s output [shk-shkkkkk-chunk]; the other end into the speaker input [shk-shkkkkk-chunnnk] and while one expected to hear the sound of the oscillator immediately following this sequence of actions [fweeeeee], the 
\i timbre 
\i0 and
\i  frequency
\i0  of the sound was novel [fwoooooo]. And so it goes in modular synthesis, there is a persistent curiosity towards creating new relationships between sounds and then conditioning the ways in which they influence each other, listening for novelty, and then seeking out another part of the circuit to experiment with.  During the course of this improvisation session, a patch was realized which which would play a transient, punctuated sound, which to the author evoked the imagery of a s\uc0\u333 zu \'97 a type of aural scarecrow from Japan which which slowly fills up water, and then tips over due to the weight, striking a rock as it spills its load, and then repeats.  In an estimation, this short sound occurred as frequently as once per five to ten minutes. \
For the introduction of the presentation, the author chose to conduct a listening meditation, one that involved an oscillation between local and global listening. This listening meditation asked the members of the class to focus on one single particular sound heard in the room\'92s soundscape, a local sound. This could have included, for example, a persistent din which seemed to originate from somewhere within the T-bar ceiling, perhaps an HVAC system; it could also include the sound of one\'92s breath; or the sound of footsteps in the hallway. They were asked to listen to that sound, get to know it. If it is continuous, listen to where it comes from and where it is going. If it is intermittent, begin to anticipate it, and then listen to where it comes from and where it is going. Try to build an understanding of the quality of the sound, imagine that one could recreate that sound in their ear later in the day. Then, they were asked to shift their focus back to the global sound, the soundscape of the room, the perceived combination of all sounds at once. Try to account for all sounds. Then, listen for that earlier local sound in the global. Note how the local interacts with the global. After that, move on to another local sound and repeat the process.\
This listening meditation was run for approximately fifteen minutes, and was inspired by the practice of 
\i Deep Listening
\i0 , which is a work of the late composer Pauline Oliveros. Up until recently, the author\'92s listening practice was informed by ear training based in Western tonality, psychoacoustics and auditory scene analysis; whereas in the past few years the practice of 
\i Deep Listening
\i0  has also become incorporated. This is not to be confused with the \'91deep listening\'92 as one of Thich Nhat Hanh\'92s 
\i Five Mindfulness Trainings
\i0 , which is \'93\'85compassion-centered listening to restore communication in order to relieve suffering and bring happiness to all beings. Listening (as a practice in this sense) would be training to respond with calmness and clarity of mind. It is a determination and commitment to reconcile and resolve conflicts.\'94 (Oliveros xxiv) Instead, Deep Listening in the music context, according to its progenitor Pauline Oliveros, \
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li360\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 is a practice that is intended to heighten and expand consciousness of sound in as many dimensions of awareness and attentional dynamics as humanly possible. \'85 [Deep Listening] comes from noticing my listening or listening to my listening and discerning the effects on my {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F3FED88C-5567-4314-A955-CE40760D4FEF"}}{\fldrslt bodymind}} continuum, from listening to others, to art and to life. (Oliveros xxiv)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
One element common to both cooking and playing music is time, and more specifically ephemerality. If food begins to brown and dry out, water can be added to compensate for some properties, such as moisture, to begin to bring it away from further charring, but it will never be quite the same as it was before. A hardware modular synthesizer, being a machine with no stored memory and unlike its software-based counterparts, is one in which changes cannot be precisely undone. These constraints are partly what contributes to a liveness in either activity, but more important is that no thing will remain in its state forever, evoking what professor Orr referred to as \'93\'85the fundamental delusion [being] the one of the reified self. We think we are going to last forever.\'94 (Orr)\
\
In the case of musical free improvisation play, the key elements here are that there is mutual influence: players control the output of their instruments, but their positions relative to each other and relative to their acoustic space will condition how and what they hear. Similarly,  \'93\'85the means whereby we turn things even while simultaneously we are being turned by them\'85\'94 (Dogen 7) \
This is further evoked by the Tenzo\'92s discussion of two people beholding the same cup, that two musicians may be hearing the same sound, but will listen to them differently. \
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li360\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 When we look at a cup that is set down between two of us, we have the feeling that we are looking at the same cup, though actually, that is not so. You look at the cup with your vision, and from a certain angle. Moreover, you see it in the rays of light and shadows that come from your side of the room. This applies equally to me as well. In a very rough sense, we proceed to separate the reality of the situation by entertaining the idea that we both see the same cup. This is what I mean by the fabrication of ideas. (Dogen 27)\
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Both musicians share some responsibility for the sound, but for several reasons they will hear it differently, (Oliveros xxii) indicating a sonic and perhaps thematic multistability. \
\
\
Works Cited\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Aagaard, Jesper. \'93Drawn to Distraction: A Qualitative Study of off-Task Use of Educational Technology.\'94 
\i Computers & Education
\i0 , vol. 87, Sept. 2015, pp. 90\'9697. 
\i Crossref
\i0 , doi:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2015.03.010"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 10.1016/j.compedu.2015.03.010}}.\
DiSessa, Andrea A. 
\i Changing Minds: Computers, Learning, and Literacy
\i0 . Mit Press, 2001.\
Dogen, et al. 
\i How to cook your life
\f2\i0 \uc0\u8239 
\f1\i : from the Zen kitchen to enlightenment
\i0 . 2005, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.overdrive.com/search?q=3B9262EB-B3B3-43D2-904D-B41A65B8494B"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 https://www.overdrive.com/search?q=3B9262EB-B3B3-43D2-904D-B41A65B8494B}}.\
Fried, Carrie B. \'93In-Class Laptop Use and Its Effects on Student Learning.\'94 
\i Computers & Education
\i0 , vol. 50, no. 3, Apr. 2008, pp. 906\'9614. 
\i Crossref
\i0 , doi:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2006.09.006"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 10.1016/j.compedu.2006.09.006}}.\
Hutchins, Charles Celeste. \'93Live Patch / Live Code.\'94 
\i Proceedings of the First International Conference on Live Coding
\i0 , ICSRiM, University of Leeds, 2015, pp. 147\'96151, doi:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.19346"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 10.5281/zenodo.19346}}.\
Ihde D. \'93Can Continental Philosophy Deal with the New Technologies?\'94 
\i J. Specul. Philos. Journal of Speculative Philosophy
\i0 , vol. 26, no. 2, 2012, pp. 321\'9632. /z-wcorg/.\
Ihde, Don. 
\i Bodies in Technology
\i0 . University of Minnesota Press, 2010. /z-wcorg/.\
Langer, Ellen J., and Mihnea. Moldoveanu. \'93The Construct of Mindfulness.\'94 
\i Journal of Social Issues
\i0 , vol. 56, no. 1, 2000, pp. 1\'969. /z-wcorg/.\
Rosenberger, Robert. \'93The Sudden Experience of the Computer.\'94 
\i AI Soc.
\i0 , vol. 24, no. 2, May 2009, pp. 173\'96180, doi:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1007/s00146-009-0190-9"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 10.1007/s00146-009-0190-9}}.\
Yojinshu, Gakudo. \'93Points to Watch in Practicing Buddhism.\'94 
\i How to Cook Your Life
\i0 , 1983, pp. 101\'9602.\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
\
}