{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Notes on distraction, attention and computers in education:\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 Jesper Aagaard: \'93Drawn to distraction: a qualitative study of off-task use of educational technology\'94\
\
\'93Today\'92s educational system increasingly integrates digital devices such as laptops and tables in the classroom on the assumption that the use of these technologies will increase student motivation and learning.\'94 (90)\
\
\'93\'85research shows that students often use technologies for distractive purposes like off-task activity and multitasking.\'94 (90)\
\
\'93\'85off-task activity is not always a \ul conscious\ulnone  choice.\'94 (90) << key to mindfulness. \
\
\'93Because of deeply sedimented bodily habits, students often experience habitual distraction in the form of pre reflective attraction towards certain frequently visited websites (e.g. Facebook).\'94 (90) << for my use it could at times be Facebook/other sites/email\'85 but in the case of playing a max patch, the act of patching comes with other off-task potentials: stack-overflow/c74 forums (reference/social media), breaking the instrument, (think hard about others). \
\
\
\'93Students sometimes go as far as closing the lids of their laptops to avoid this habitual distraction.\'94 (90) << have certainly considered this \'97 as long as an instrument is sufficiently abstracted (?) such that its controls/state are not on a screen and manipulatable using midi controls, mouse, etc, this is possible. But for some instruments this is not always possible or quite frankly necessary (or perhaps too restrictive).\
\
\'93This empirical inquiry is informed by postphenomenology, which differs from classic cognitive theory by shifting focus from mental processes to bodily use of technologies.\'94(90) << the mindfulness course emphasizes Wittgenstein\
\
\'93Brief review of existing cognitive literature on attention and its inadequate consideration of embodiment and instead present a post phenomenological framework.\'94 (90)\
\
\
\'93According to cognitive psychology, attention is mostly voluntarily controlled by the mind  (this is endogenous, top-down, or goal-directed attention) but can also be redirected by unexpected external stimuli such as a loud noise or a flashing light (this is exogenous, bottom-up, or stimulus-driven attention) (Corbetta & Shulman, 2002; Posner 1980) Attention is either directed from within or triggered from without. This division is readily adopted by educational researchers, who conclude that technological distraction is primarily voluntary and endogenous, but can also be caused by exogenous stimuli.\'94 (91)\
>> Aagaard points out that this is characterized by the Cartesian dualism of the mind-body, where, according to Ryle\'92s critique, the \'93\'85ethereal mind exists outside of space, beyond the laws of matter, while the material body is a mechanical instrument like a clock that functions merely as a handmaiden to the mind. A description of embodied first-person experience, however, rejects this dogma and shows the body to be {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AAC1408B-F115-45B6-86D2-BC67DF51C0E9"}}{\fldrslt active and skillful}} (Merleau-Ponty, 2002). \'85engaging with a [computer] is a highly embodied relation that includes being face-to-face with a screen and hands-on with a keyboard (Friesen, 2011) [and mouse]. An inadequate consideration of embodiment hinders an understanding of the manual nature of media use (Moores, 2014).\'94 (91)\
\
Postphenomenology for the \'93crucial relation between bodies and technology\'94 (91) see also Ihde, 2002, 2010. \
Peter-Paul Verbeek on Postphenomenology:\
\'93\'85study technology in terms of the relations between human beings and technological artifacts \'85 various ways technologies help to shape relations between human beings and the world. They do not approach technologies as merely functional and instrumental objects, but as mediators of human experiences and practices.\'94 ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://ppverbeek.wordpress.com/postphenomenology/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 https://ppverbeek.wordpress.com/postphenomenology/}}
\f2 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 )
\f1 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \ulnone \
\
Peter-Paul Verbeek on Postphenomenology:\
\'93\'85study technology in terms of the relations between human beings and technological artifacts \'85 various ways technologies help to shape relations between human beings and the world. They do not approach technologies as merely functional and instrumental objects, but as mediators of human experiences and practices.\'94 ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://ppverbeek.wordpress.com/postphenomenology/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 https://ppverbeek.wordpress.com/postphenomenology/}}
\f2 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 )\
\
\
}